Add getting started documentation (#250)
ml6team/fondant: docs/getting_started.md

## Setting up the environment

### Installing fondant

> We suggest that you use a [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) for you project. Fondant supports Python >=3.8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We suggest that you use a [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) for your project. Fondant supports Python >=3.8.
```

Fondant can be installed using pip:

```bash
pip install fondant
```

For the latest development version, you might want to install from source instead:
```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/ml6team/fondant.git
```
You can validate the installation of fondant by running its root CLI command:
```bash
fondant --help
```

## Your first pipeline

Create a `pipeline.py` file in the root of your project and add the following code:

```Python
from fondant.pipeline import Pipeline, ComponentOp

my_pipeline = Pipeline(
    pipeline_name='my_pipeline',
    base_path='/home/username/my_pipeline',
    pipeline_description='This is my pipeline',
)
```

This is all you need to initialize a fondant pipeline:

- **pipeline_name**: A name to reference your pipeline.

> - **base_path**: The base path of your pipeline, this will be used to store artifacts: the data between steps and the pipeline manifests. This base_path can be a local path or a cloud storage path (e.g. s3://my_bucket/artifacts, or gs://my_bucket/artifacts).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **base_path**: The base path that fondant should use to store artifacts and data. This base_path can be a local path or a cloud storage path (e.g. s3://my_bucket/artifacts, or gs://my_bucket/artifacts).
```
Some simplification

- **pipeline_description**: A description of your pipeline.

## Adding components

Now that we have a pipeline, we can add components to it. Components are the building blocks of your pipeline. They are the individual steps that will be executed in your pipeline. There are 2 main types of components:

- reusable components: These are components that are already created by the community and can be easily used in your pipeline. You can find a list of reusable components [here](https://github.com/ml6team/fondant/tree/main/components). They often have arguments that you can set to configure them for your use case.

> - custom components: These are the components you create to solve your use case. A custom component can be easily created by adding a `fondant_component.yaml`, `dockerfile` and `main.py` file to your component subdirectory. This file contains the metadata of your component. You can find more information about the `fondant_component.yaml` file [here](https://github.com/ml6team/fondant/blob/main/docs/component_spec.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- custom components: These are the components you create to solve your use case. A custom component can be easily created by adding a `fondant_component.yaml`, `dockerfile` and `main.py` file to your component subdirectory. The `fondant_component.yaml` file contains the specification of your component. You can find more information about it [here](https://github.com/ml6team/fondant/blob/main/docs/component_spec.md)
```

Let's add a reusable component to our pipeline. We will use the `load_from_hf_hub` component to read data from huggingface. Add the following code to your `pipeline.py` file:

```Python
load_from_hf_hub = ComponentOp.from_registry(
    name='load_from_hf_hub',

>     component_spec_path='components/load_from_hf_hub/component_spec.yml',

Reviewer 2: Would stick to `fondant_component.yaml` as name.

    arguments={
        'dataset_name': 'huggan/pokemon',
        'n_rows_to_load': 100,
        'column_name_mapping': {
            'image': 'images_raw',
        },
        "image_column_names": ["image"],
        
    }
)

my_pipeline.add_op(load_from_hf_hub, dependencies=[])

> ```

Author: Not sure if it is the best example since it seems quite complex

Reviewer 2: We might just have to explain it a bit better, as it is the most useful component to easily load some data to get started. Not sure if we want to describe this as a third kind of component, which is a "generic" component.

Two things are happening here:
1. We created a ComponentOp from the registry. This is a reusable component, we pass it arguments needed to configure it

- **dataset_name**: The name of the dataset on huggingface hub, here we load a [dataset with pokemon images](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggan/pokemon)
- **n_rows_to_load**: The number of rows to load from the dataset. This is useful for testing your pipeline on a small scale.
- **column_name_mapping**: A mapping of the columns in the dataset to the columns in fondant. Here we map the `image` column in the dataset to the `images_raw` subset_column in fondant.
- **image_column_names**: A list of the original image column names in the dataset. This is used to format the image from the huggingface hub format to a byte string.

2. We add our created componentOp to the pipeline using the `add_op` method. This component has no dependencies since it is the first component in our pipeline.

> Next create a file `load_from_hf_hub/component_spec.yml` with the following content:

Reviewer 2: Would stick to `fondant_component.yaml` as name.

    type: str
  column_name_mapping:
    description: Mapping of the consumed hub dataset to fondant column names
    type: dict
  image_column_names:
    description: Optional argument, a list containing the original image column names in case the 
      dataset on the hub contains them. Used to format the image from HF hub format to a byte string.
    type: list
    default: None
  n_rows_to_load:
    description: Optional argument that defines the number of rows to load. Useful for testing pipeline runs on a small scale
    type: int
    default: None
```

This is the component spec of the component we have just added to our pipelines, the only thing we have altered is the `produces` section. We have defined what subsets, fields and types this component produces.

Your project should look like this now:
```
.
├── components
│   └── load_from_hf_hub
│       └── component_spec.yml
└── pipeline.py
```

We now have a fully functional Fondant pipeline, it does not have much functionality yet, but it is a good starting point to build upon. We can already try running this limited example in order to validate our setup.

## Running your pipeline

> A Fondant pipeline needs to be compiled before it can be ran. This means translating the user friendly Fondant pipeline definition into something that can be executed by a runner.

Reviewer 2: I would leave out the compilation step here and only explain the combined functionality which you get when using `fondant run`.

- Local runner: This runner runs the pipeline locally on your machine. This is useful for testing your pipeline. We leverage Docker Compose to compile and run the pipeline locally.
- Kubeflow runner: This runner runs the pipeline on a Kubeflow cluster. This is useful for running your pipeline in production on full data.

Fondant has a feature rich CLI that helps you with these steps, let's start by compiling our pipeline for the local runner:

```bash
fondant compile pipeline:my_pipeline --local
```

We call the fondant CLI to compile our pipeline, we pass a reference to our pipeline using the import_string syntax `<module>:<instance>`. We also pass the `--local` flag to indicate we want to compile our pipeline for the local runner.
Running this command will create a `docker-compose.yml` file with the compiled pipeline definition. Feel free to inspect this file but changing it is not needed.

Note that if you use a local `base_path` in your pipeline declaration that this path will be mounted in the docker containers. This means that the data will be stored locally on your machine. If you use a cloud storage path, the data will be stored in the cloud.

> Now that we have compiled our pipeline, we can run it:

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should mentioned that the docker images are stored in the Github container registry. I didn't pulled images from there before which leads me into an additional docker login step. 
Basically following the steps here: https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-container-registry#authenticating-to-the-container-registry

## Setting up the environment

### Installing fondant

We suggest that you use a [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) for your project. Fondant supports Python >=3.8.

Fondant can be installed using pip:

```bash
pip install fondant[pipelines]
```

You can validate the installation of fondant by running its root CLI command:
```bash
fondant --help
```

## Your first pipeline

Create a `pipeline.py` file in the root of your project and add the following code:

```Python
from fondant.pipeline import Pipeline, ComponentOp

my_pipeline = Pipeline(
    pipeline_name='my_pipeline',

>     base_path='/home/username/my_pipeline', <--- Make sure to update this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    base_path='/home/username/my_pipeline',  # TODO: update this
```

    pipeline_description='This is my pipeline',
)
```

This is all you need to initialize a fondant pipeline:

- **pipeline_name**: A name to reference your pipeline.
- **base_path**: The base path that fondant should use to store artifacts and data. This base_path can be a local path or a cloud storage path (e.g. s3://my_bucket/artifacts, or gs://my_bucket/artifacts).
- **pipeline_description**: A description of your pipeline.

## Adding components

Now that we have a pipeline, we can add components to it. Components are the building blocks of your pipeline. They are the individual steps that will be executed in your pipeline. There are 2 main types of components:

> - reusable components: These are components that are already created by the community and can be easily used in your pipeline. You can find a list of reusable components [here](https://github.com/ml6team/fondant/tree/main/components). They often have arguments that you can set to configure them for your use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **reusable components**: These are components that are already created by the community and can be easily used in your pipeline. You can find a list of reusable components [here](https://github.com/ml6team/fondant/tree/main/components). They often have arguments that you can set to configure them for your use case.
```

```python
"""This component filters images of the dataset based on image size (minimum height and width)."""
import io
import logging
import typing as t

import imagesize
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd

from fondant.component import PandasTransformComponent

logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

def extract_dimensions(images: bytes) -> t.Tuple[np.int16, np.int16]:
    """Extract the width and height of an image.

    Args:
        images: input dataframe with images_data column

    Returns:
        np.int16: width of the image
        np.int16: height of the image
    """
    width, height = imagesize.get(io.BytesIO(images))

    return np.int16(width), np.int16(height)

class ImageResolutionExtractionComponent(PandasTransformComponent):
    """Component that extracts image dimensions."""

    def transform(self, dataframe: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:
        """
        Args:
            dataframe: Dask dataframe
        Returns:
            dataset.
        """
        logger.info("Filtering dataset...")

        dataframe[[("images", "width"), ("images", "height")]] = \

>             dataframe[[("images", "data")]].apply(lambda x:extract_dimensions(x.iloc[0]), axis=1)

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above.
